#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /home/amurali/Desktop/DRARM_Thesis_2024/Thesis_draft/
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{subfig}
\usepackage{tikz}
\setcounter{chapter}{6}

%\begin{document}
\usetikzlibrary{decorations.pathmorphing}
\usetikzlibrary{shapes.misc}

\usepackage{xcolor}
\definecolor{BLACK}{rgb}{0,0,0}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\master Thesis_Manuscript_ARM.lyx
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "beraserif" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "beramono" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\float_placement th
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "PhD Thesis Draft"
\pdf_author "Ama Roy Murali"
\pdf_subject "Noise prediction for high lift devices"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=red, urlcolor=blue, citecolor=blue, pdfstartview={FitH}, hyperfootnotes=false, unicode=true"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 2
\use_package mathtools 2
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style unsrtnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions and Future Perspectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research presented in this thesis an attempt to advance the understanding
 of leading-edge slat noise through high-fidelity simulations and detailed
 flow analysis.
 An innovative surrogate modeling approach, not previously used for aeroacoustic
 simulations, is also deployed with particular focus to approximating the
 far-field noise spectrum.
 The main findings from each chapter can be summarized as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Literature Review – Aeroacoustic Noise Mechanisms and Slat Noise:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Chapter 1 a generic introduction to slat noise and the background of
 the thesis is presented.
 In Chapter 2 a survey of past studies was presented and highlighted the
 canonical aeroacoustic mechanisms with the objective to explain the leading-edg
e slat noise.
 One striking feature of slat noise research is that there exists a discrepancy
 between the experiment and flight test for the tonal nature of its noise.
 The tones are not acknowledged to exist in the flight test data but are
 a prominent feature in subscale noise testing from early on.
 Also despite extensive experimental efforts and analytical models, the
 complex cove flow dynamics of slats remained only partially understood,
 with phenomena like intermittent behavior of the aeroacoustic tones reported
 but not fully explained.
 This motivated the use of advanced computational approaches.
 The Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM) emerged as a promising tool for aeroacoustic
 simulation of such flows, offering inherently low dissipation and excellent
 parallel scalability for capturing acoustic sources in the slat cove.
 The literature review thus suggested both the need for high-fidelity analysis
 of slat noise mechanisms to investigate it in light of known aeroacoustic
 mechanisms and the potential of LBM to meet this need.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Simulation Framework – LBM validation for Aeroacoustics:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Chapter 3, a comprehensive study of the theoretical underpinning of LBM
 and a validation of the LBM solver 
\begin_inset Formula $\emph{ProLB}$
\end_inset

 was carried out for a standard slat position configuration of the HLD in
 free-stream conditions.
 The solver was able to reproduce the mean flow field and surface pressure
 distribution on the HLD with good accuracy when compared to experimental
 data.
 In particular, the simulated wall-pressure coefficients on the slat and
 main element showed the correct trends and magnitude, with minor discrepancies
 attributable to differences of experimental setup from that of simulation.
 The far-field sound predictions using a Ffowcs Williams–Hawkings (FWH)
 acoustic analogy also demonstrated a close agreement across the frequency
 range of interest, confirming that the LBM-FWH approach can capture both
 broadband and tonal noise components of the slat.
 This validation aided to establish confidence in the numerical framework’s
 capability for high-fidelity aeroacoustic simulation of slat noise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Flow Physics of the Slat Cove:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the validated solver, an in-depth analysis of the baseline (standard)
 slat geometry was performed, in Chapter 4, to investigate the noise-generation
 mechanisms.
 The study revealed the details of a highly complex unsteady flow in the
 slat cove region characterized by spanwise-periodic cellular structures
 in the recirculation bubble.
 These spanwise cells – alternating converging and diverging flow regions
 along the span – are driven by a centrifugal instability of the curved
 shear layer in the cove.
 As the shear layer rolls over the slat cusp, it forms spanwise coherent
 vortices that initially organize according to the cellular pressure pattern.
 During this thesis we have uncovered a previously unknown localised and
 periodic “bursting” phenomenon at a characteristic non-dimensional frequency
 around St ≈ 0.16 (based on slat chord and freestream velocity) which corresponds
 to the recirculation frequency of the slat cove.
 The spanwise coherent vortical structures shed from the cusp also abruptly
 breaks down into smaller-scale streamwise vortices.
 This bursting occurs preferentially at the diverging planes of the spanwise
 cells (where a pressure deficit accumulates) and convects downstream with
 the shear layer.
 The result is a recurrent injection of turbulence into the shear layer.
 These findings expand on the current understanding of slat cove dynamics
 by pinpointing a specific mechanism for the transition from large coherent
 structures to fine-scale turbulence via an intrinsic unsteady mode of the
 recirculation flow.
 Notably, the estimated frequency of the cove “pulsation” matches the low-freque
ncy tone observed in slat noise spectra, suggesting a direct link between
 the unsteady recirculation and acoustic emissions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Slat Noise Generation Mechanisms:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As part of Chapter 4, the flow features thus understood translated into
 clear noise-generation pathways as well.
 The shear layer emanating from the slat cusp impinges on the slat trailing
 edge, and its unsteadiness induces pressure fluctuations.
 These fluctuations can emanate themselves as farfield noise but also interact
 with the vortex shedding at the slat cusp to cause an aeroacoustic resonance.
 The resonant modes act as sources of tonal noise.
 The intermittent breakdown of spanwise coherence in the shear layer explains
 the tone intermittency and mode switching reported in experiments for slat
 noise – essentially, the effective coherence length of the noise sources
 in the gap can shorten when a burst occurs, leading to a temporary reduction
 or shift of tonal noise, before coherence rebuilds and tones re-emerge.
 Thus, the study provides a physical explanation for the stochastic behavior
 of slat tones (as observed by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Jawahar2021"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 and others) by relating it to the intrinsic variability of the cove flow.
 In summary, the dominant slat noise sources were found to be: (1) the unsteady
 shear layer impingement causing aeroacoustic resonance, producing a primary
 tonal noise at the burst frequency and its harmonics, and (2) additional
 broadband contributions from the smaller-scale turbulent structures convected
 through the gap.
 Importantly, no evidence was found of purely artificial acoustic modes
 due to the computational setup – the spanwise cellular pattern was confirmed
 to be a physical feature rather than a numerical artifact, as it persisted
 when varying the spanwise domain length, boundary conditions, and slat
 positioning.
 The variability from no cell formation to wave numbers of 
\begin_inset Formula $L_{z}/5$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $L_{z}$
\end_inset

 is the spanwise length provides a validation of the same fact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Surrogate Modeling and Parametric Study:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To extend the analysis beyond a single geometry, a surrogate modeling framework
 was developed in Chapter 5 to investigate slat noise across a range of
 slat positions.
 Using a Gaussian Process (GP) regression as the surrogate, coupled with
 an active learning strategy (Upper Confidence Bound, UCB), the study explored
 a three-dimensional parameter space of slat gap, overlap, and deflection
 angle, i.e.
 positions relative to the main element.
 The use of a statistical surrogate model has the objective of maximizing
 the sampling efficiency for the parametric simulation, and also to introduce
 such methods to aeroacoustic engineering research.
 The surrogate model was trained on a limited set of high-fidelity LBM simulatio
ns and was able to predict the noise spectra for any intermediate slat setting,
 along with an estimate of its own uncertainty.
 This approach was also presented as an optimization tool: the UCB-driven
 sampling iteratively selected new simulation cases that were pinned to
 case that maximize the far-field noise, thereby honing in on the loudest
 configurations.
 As a result, the most acoustically critical slat setting in the considered
 design space was identified with far fewer runs than a naive parameter
 sweep.
 The surrogate’s predictions of sound pressure levels were in close agreement
 with subsequent LBM simulations for those noisiest configurations, demonstratin
g the model’s utility and the benefit of uncertainty-based sampling.
 Beyond optimization, this parametric campaign yielded a rich dataset that
 allowed us to examine the generality of the cove flow phenomena: indeed,
 the spanwise cell formation and bursting mechanism were observed across
 all tested slat positions, though the exact frequency and strength of the
 bursts showed some dependence on slat geometry.
 For instance, moving the slat outboard (increasing gap and overlap) tended
 to slightly alter the recirculation size and shift the burst frequency,
 but the qualitative behavior remained the same.
 These observations confirm that the centrifugal-instability-driven unsteadiness
 is an inherent feature of slat cove flows.
 In summary, the surrogate modeling effort not only facilitated rapid evaluation
 of slat noise performance for different geometries, but also supported
 the physical analysis by expanding the range of conditions under which
 the newly identified noise mechanism has been validated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, this thesis combined high-fidelity LBM simulations and data-driven
 surrogate modeling to gain new insights into slat noise.
 We have demonstrated that LBM can reliably capture the intricate flow physics
 and acoustics of a leading-edge slat, provided sufficient care in its numerical
 setup.
 The discovery of the spanwise cellular instability and its role in modulating
 the noise generation is a key scientific contribution, offering a deeper
 mechanistic understanding of slat noise that bridges previously disparate
 observations (tone interactions, intermittency, etc.).
 Meanwhile, the surrogate modeling approach represents a step towards practical
 aeroacoustic design optimization, showing how costly simulations can be
 leveraged in an intelligent manner to explore design changes.
 The tools and knowledge developed in this work lay a foundation for more
 efficient framework and eventually an aeroacoustic surrogate model applicable
 to real world design problems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Future Perspectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From the conclusions of this thesis, several avenues are proposed for future
 work.
 These include immediate next steps that naturally extend the current study,
 as well as long-term research directions that apply emerging techniques
 to the problem of slat noise prediction and reduction.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Expanded Parametric Studies: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A logical and first next step is to broaden the parameter space investigated
 for slat noise characteristics.
 In this thesis we varied the slat positioning parameters for a fixed airfoil
 geometry – the VALIANT 2 element configuration – at a single angle of attack,
 Mach number, and Reynolds number.
 Future studies should consider a more comprehensive parametric sweep, including
 different slat deflection angles, gap sizes, profile shapes, and incoming
 velocity.
 Varying the flow conditions – such as the freestream velocity (Reynolds
 number) or angle of attack of the main wing – would provide insight into
 the scaling of the noise sources.
 Expanding the dataset in these ways would not only enhance the surrogate
 model (making it more general), but also test the limits of the current
 conclusions.
 For instance, it can answer questions like whether the bursting Strouhal
 number remain around 0.16 for other free stream velocities, or does it shift
 with different flow parameters.
 Variation of the Reynolds number can also shed light on whether the strength
 of spanwise modes and its wave number increases as the Reynolds number
 increases, and thus whether such an increased instability explain the complete
 attenuation of tonal noise at flight Reynolds numbers.
 Answering such questions would help generalize the slat noise theory and
 potentially lead to low-order design tools.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Further Validation and Diagnostics: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although a validation was performed for the baseline case, it would strengthen
 the conclusions to seek additional experimental or high-fidelity data for
 comparison.
 Near-term efforts could involve collaborating with experimental researchers
 to obtain detailed measurements for a few key cases for instance, the loudest
 slat position identified by our surrogate model.
 Comparing measured and simulated far-field spectra, as well as any measured
 flow features, would provide a rigorous test of the new physical insights.
 This could include checking if the predicted burst frequency and spanwise
 mode pattern occur in reality.
 The recent experiments by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "KamliyaJawahar2021"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 on slat noise intermittency, for example, might be re-examined in light
 of our findings to probe whether their wall-pressure traces or acoustic
 spectra show signatures consistent with a recirculation bubble pulsation;
 or whether the characteristics vary along the spanwise directions.
 A targeted experimental campaign on a slat-only configuration could directly
 look for the spanwise cellular flows or the unsteady recirculation bubble
 hypothesized here.
 Validating these flow features is challenging, but indirect evidence could
 support our conclusions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Machine Learning Surrogates with Enhanced Capability: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A major long-term goal is to leverage advanced machine learning (ML) techniques
 to create surrogate models of slat noise that go beyond the limited-parameter
 Gaussian Process model developed here.
 This thesis sets the basic structure and theoretical ideas for it, but
 has implemented the surrogate primarily for Active Learning purposes.
 The same model, if continually trained for further acquisition steps can
 provide a noise surrogate, including for variations of the Reynolds number.
 Moreover, the method can be extended for more complex cases other than
 slat noise by utilizing the same method of feature reductions and representatio
n of spectral data and their uncertainties.
 Finally the stochastic Upper Confidence Bound acquisition function that
 we deployed is only one among many possible techniques, which are also
 evolving in their own literature.
 An upgradation using a more optimal acquisition function for sampling will
 be highly beneficial for industrial use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Integration into Design and Noise Mitigation:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the long run, the insights and tools developed here can be directed towards
 practical noise reduction strategies for high-lift devices.
 One vision is to incorporate the surrogate model (enhanced by ML as discussed
 above) into a multi-objective optimization framework for aircraft design.
 For example, an optimizer could adjust the slat geometry or deployment
 angle to minimize noise, perhaps aiming to disrupt the coherence or reduce
 the strength of the cove instabilities, while still meeting lift and aerodynami
c requirements.
 The fast evaluation provided by a surrogate model would make it feasible
 to explore a vast design space and identify novel configurations or add-on
 devices such as slat cove fillers or serrated slat cusps that achieve a
 better noise-performance trade-off.
 Any promising designs coming out of such computational optimization could
 then be validated by targeted high-fidelity simulations and experiments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Extending High-Fidelity Simulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As computing power continues to grow, it will become increasingly feasible
 to apply high-fidelity methods like LBM to more complex and realistic scenarios
, which is another long-term avenue.
 Future researchers could build on this work by simulating a full wing with
 both slat and flap in deployed position, or a complete aircraft landing
 configuration, capturing the interplay between multiple noise sources (slat,
 flap, landing gear, etc.).
 While today this would be enormously demanding, trends in GPU-based computing
 and algorithmic improvements (e.g.
 adaptive mesh refinement in LBM, better boundary conditions, coupling with
 Large-Eddy Simulation turbulence models for finer near-wall resolution)
 may bring such computations within reach.
 These simulations would validate whether the noise mechanisms identified
 in an isolated slat hold in the presence of other components and whether
 new noise source interactions emerge.
 They could also provide high-fidelity data to guide standards and regulations
 by virtually testing noise abatement scenarios.
 In summary, the long-term trajectory of this research field will likely
 see a convergence of data-driven models and intensive simulations: the
 former (ML surrogates) will rapidly explore design changes and hypotheses,
 while the simulation tools like LBM as a next-generation high-fidelity
 simulation method will verify and deepen our understanding, each feeding
 into the other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In closing, the work accomplished in this thesis, in our expectations, has
 laid a groundwork for statistical surrogate methodology in aeroacoustic
 design and augmented the physical insights for addressing slat noise.
 By amalgamating an advanced CFD approach (LBM) with modern surrogate modeling,
 we have shown a pathway to analyze, predict, and possibly mitigate the
 complex noise generated by high-lift devices.
 The method is also generalisable to other aeroacoustic cases where complex
 industrial geometries need to be studied parametrically but where each
 experimentation is computationally expensive.
 Finally, the findings on the flow dynamics and aeroacoustic mechanisms
 that we presented not only assist in solving pieces of the long-standing
 puzzle of slat noise dynamics, but also open the door to innovative research
 directions.
 Continued efforts along the lines described will bring us closer to the
 goals of deeper scientific understanding and practical noise reduction,
 contributing to the broader aim of more environmentally sustainable aviation.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
