#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /home/amurali/Desktop/DRARM_Thesis_2024/Thesis_draft/
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{subfig}
\usepackage{tikz}
\setcounter{chapter}{2}

%\begin{document}
\usetikzlibrary{decorations.pathmorphing}
\usetikzlibrary{shapes.misc}

\usepackage{xcolor}
\definecolor{BLACK}{rgb}{0,0,0}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\master Thesis_Manuscript_ARM.lyx
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "beraserif" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "beramono" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\float_placement th
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "PhD Thesis Draft"
\pdf_author "Ama Roy Murali"
\pdf_subject "Noise prediction for high lift devices"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=red, urlcolor=blue, citecolor=blue, pdfstartview={FitH}, hyperfootnotes=false, unicode=true"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 2
\use_package mathtools 2
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style unsrtnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions and Future Perspectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research presented in this thesis attempts to advance the understanding
 of leading-edge slat noise through high-fidelity simulation, detailed flow
 analysis, and innovative surrogate modeling.
 The main findings from each chapter can be summarized as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Literature Review – Aeroacoustic Noise Mechanisms and Slat Noise:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The survey of past studies highlighted the canonical aeroacoustic mechanisms
 with the objective to explain the leading-edge slat noise.
 According to our understanding, the slat noise is a dominant contributor
 to airframe noise in take-off and landing configurations, especially at
 low-to-mid frequencies.
 A striking feature of slat noise research is that there exists a discrepancy
 between the experiment and flight test for the tonal nature of its noise.
 The tones are not acknowledged to exist in the flight test data but are
 a prominent feature in subscale noise testing.
 Also despite extensive experimental efforts and analytical models, the
 complex cove flow dynamics of slats remained only partially understood,
 with phenomena like intermittent behavior of the tones reported but not
 fully explained.
 This motivated the use of advanced computational approaches.
 The Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM) emerged as a promising tool for aeroacoustic
 simulation of such flows, offering inherently low dissipation and excellent
 parallel scalability for capturing acoustic waves.
 The literature review thus established both the need for high-fidelity
 analysis of slat noise mechanisms to investigate it in light of known aeroacous
tic mechanisms and the potential of LBM to meet this need.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Simulation Framework – LBM validation for Aeroacoustics:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A comprehensive study of theoretical underpinning of LBM and validation
 LBM solver 
\begin_inset Formula $\emph{ProLB}$
\end_inset

 was carried out for a standard slat configuration in free-stream conditions.
 The solver was able to reproduce the mean flow field and surface pressure
 distribution on the slat-main element configuration with good accuracy
 when compared to experimental data.
 In particular, the simulated wall-pressure coefficients on the slat and
 main element showed the correct trends and magnitude, with minor discrepancies
 attributable to differences in experimental setup.
 The far-field sound predictions using a Ffowcs Williams–Hawkings (FWH)
 acoustic analogy also demonstrated close agreement in overall sound pressure
 levels and spectral content with microphone measurements, confirming that
 the LBM approach can capture both broadband and tonal noise components
 of the slat.
 This validation aided to establish confidence in the numerical framework’s
 capability for high-fidelity aeroacoustic simulation of slat noise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Flow Physics of the Slat Cove:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the validated solver, an in-depth analysis of the baseline (standard)
 slat geometry was performed to unravel the noise-generation mechanisms.
 The study revealed the details of a highly complex unsteady flow in the
 slat cove region characterized by spanwise-periodic cellular structures
 in the recirculation bubble.
 These spanwise cells – alternating converging and diverging flow regions
 along the span – are driven by a centrifugal instability of the curved
 shear layer in the cove.
 As the shear layer rolls over the slat cusp, it forms spanwise coherent
 vortices that initially organize according to the cellular pressure pattern.
 During this thesis we have uncovered a previously unknown periodic “bursting”
 phenomenon: at a characteristic non-dimensional frequency around St ≈ 0.16
 (based on slat chord and freestream velocity), the spanwise vortical structure
 abruptly breaks down into smaller-scale streamwise vortices.
 This bursting occurs preferentially at the diverging planes of the spanwise
 cells (where a pressure deficit accumulates) and convects downstream with
 the shear flow.
 The result is a recurrent injection of turbulence into the shear layer.
 These findings augment the current understanding of slat cove dynamics
 by pinpointing a specific mechanism for the transition from large coherent
 structures to fine-scale turbulence via an intrinsic unsteady mode of the
 recirculation flow.
 Notably, the estimated frequency of the cove “pulsation” matches the low-freque
ncy tone observed in slat noise spectra, suggesting a direct link between
 the unsteady recirculation and acoustic emissions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Slat Noise Generation Mechanisms:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The flow features thus understood translated into clear noise-generation
 pathways.
 The shear layer emanating from the slat cusp impinges on the main element
 downstream, and its unsteadiness induces pressure fluctuations on the main
 element leading edge, which in turn radiate as sound.
 The intermittent breakdown of spanwise coherence in the shear layer explains
 the tone intermittency and mode switching reported in experiments for slat
 noise – essentially, the effective coherence length of the noise sources
 in the gap can shorten when a burst occurs, leading to a temporary reduction
 or shift of tonal noise, before coherence rebuilds and tones re-emerge.
 Thus, the study provides a physical explanation for the stochastic behavior
 of slat tones (as observed by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Jawahar2021"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 and others) by relating it to the intrinsic variability of the cove flow.
 In summary, the dominant slat noise sources were found to be: (1) the unsteady
 shear layer impingement causing aeroacoustic resonance, producing a primary
 tonal noise at the burst frequency and its harmonics, and (2) additional
 broadband contributions from the smaller-scale turbulent structures convected
 through the gap.
 Importantly, no evidence was found of purely artificial acoustic modes
 due to the computational setup – the spanwise cellular pattern was confirmed
 to be a physical feature rather than a numerical artifact, as it persisted
 when varying the spanwise domain length, boundary conditions, and slat
 positioning.
 The variability from no cell formation to wave numbers of 
\begin_inset Formula $L_{z}/5$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $L_{z}$
\end_inset

 is the spanwise length provides a validation of the same fact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Surrogate Modeling and Parametric Study:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To extend the analysis beyond a single geometry, a surrogate modeling framework
 was developed to investigate slat noise across a range of slat positions.
 Using a Gaussian Process (GP) regression as the surrogate, coupled with
 an active learning strategy (Upper Confidence Bound, UCB), the study explored
 the two-dimensional parameter space of slat gap and overlap, i.e.
 positions relative to the main element.
 The use of a statistical surrogate model was with the objective of maximizing
 the sampling efficiency for the parametric simulation, and also to introduce
 such methods to the aeroacoustic engineering research.
 The surrogate model was trained on a limited set of high-fidelity LBM simulatio
ns and was able to predict the noise spectrum for any intermediate slat
 setting, along with an estimate of its own uncertainty.
 This approach was presented as an optimization tool: the UCB-driven sampling
 iteratively selected new simulation cases that were pinned to case that
 maximize the far-field noise, thereby honing in on the loudest configurations.
 As a result, the most acoustically critical slat setting in the considered
 design space was identified with far fewer runs than a brute-force parameter
 sweep.
 The surrogate’s predictions of sound pressure levels were in close agreement
 with subsequent LBM simulations for those configurations, demonstrating
 the model’s utility and the benefit of uncertainty-based sampling.
 Beyond optimization, this parametric campaign yielded a rich dataset that
 allowed us to examine the generality of the cove flow phenomena: indeed,
 the spanwise cell formation and bursting mechanism were observed across
 all tested slat positions, though the exact frequency and strength of the
 bursts showed some dependence on slat geometry.
 For instance, moving the slat outboard (increasing gap and overlap) tended
 to slightly alter the recirculation size and shift the burst frequency,
 but the qualitative behavior remained the same.
 These observations confirm that the centrifugal-instability-driven unsteadiness
 is an inherent feature of slat cove flows.
 In summary, the surrogate modeling effort not only facilitated rapid evaluation
 of slat noise performance for different geometries, but also supported
 the physical analysis by expanding the range of conditions under which
 the newly identified noise mechanism has been validated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, this thesis combined high-fidelity LBM simulations and data-driven
 surrogate modeling to gain new insights into slat noise.
 We have demonstrated that LBM can reliably capture the intricate flow physics
 and acoustics of a leading-edge slat, provided sufficient care in its numerical
 setup.
 The discovery of the spanwise cellular instability and its role in modulating
 the noise generation is a key scientific contribution, offering a deeper
 mechanistic understanding of slat noise that bridges previously disparate
 observations (tone interactions, intermittency, etc.).
 Meanwhile, the surrogate modeling approach represents a step toward practical
 aeroacoustic design optimization, showing how costly simulations can be
 leveraged in an intelligent manner to explore design changes.
 The tools and knowledge developed in this work lay a foundation for more
 efficient prediction and eventually mitigation of high-lift device noise
 in future aircraft designs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
LBM Applicability and Limitations:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is important to critically assess the numerical approach used, to delineate
 its range of validity for aeroacoustic predictions of slat noise.
 The Lattice Boltzmann Method proved to be a powerful high-fidelity solver
 in this study, but it comes with certain numerical limitations that were
 encountered and addressed as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph
Dispersion vs.
 Dissipation:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LBM inherently has very low numerical dissipation, which is advantageous
 for preserving acoustic wave amplitude over long travel distances (a key
 requirement in computational aeroacoustics).
 Indeed, our simulations maintained stable and clear pressure signals without
 excessive damping.
 However, LBM is known to exhibit higher numerical dispersion compared to
 some high-order Navier–Stokes solvers.
 Numerical dispersion can slightly distort the phase speed of acoustic waves,
 meaning that if the grid resolution is not fine enough, the predicted frequenci
es or wave propagation angles can shift from their true values.
 In our case, a careful grid convergence study in Chapter 3 ensured that
 the lattice spacing was sufficiently small to accurately resolve the wavelength
s of interest.
 The grid was designed such that at the highest significant tone frequency,
 there were enough points per wavelength to limit dispersion error to acceptable
 levels.
 As a result, the tonal frequencies and directivity matched well with theory
 and experiment.
 Nonetheless, the reliance on fine grids increases computational cost; future
 applications of LBM to aeroacoustics must account for this and possibly
 employ selective grid refinement in acoustic source regions to mitigate
 dispersion without everywhere-uniform ultra-fine meshes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph
Grid and Time-Step Requirements:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The LBM solver used a uniform cubic lattice.
 This requirement of maintaining an aspect ratio of 1 in cells can inflate
 the total cell count, particularly since the boundary layer over the slat
 and main element must be resolved with many layers of tiny cells in all
 three directions.
 Traditional CFD methods can use stretched grids to alleviate this, but
 in LBM we had to use a large number of lattice points to capture both the
 aerodynamic field and the acoustic fluctuations.
 The computational expense was managed by leveraging GPU acceleration and
 modern HPC resources, an approach that will be indispensable for future
 LBM studies of realistic aircraft components.
 We also note that the explicit time stepping of LBM with a CFL number essential
ly fixed by lattice speed imposes very small time-steps relative to physical
 time, especially at high Reynolds numbers, further adding to the cost.
 Despite these challenges, the pay-off is a fully transient, high-resolution
 solution of the flow and acoustics without numerical tuning or excessive
 dissipation, which was crucial for revealing the subtle instability mechanisms
 in the slat cove.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph
Spanwise Periodicity and Domain Size: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To simulate a portion of an infinite wing, periodic boundary conditions
 in the spanwise direction were employed.
 A known issue with spanwise-periodic CFD simulations is the potential for
 artificial reinforcement of flow structures at the imposed periodic length
 scale.
 In other words, disturbances can lock into patterns that repeat every spanwise
 period, because the domain artificially correlates the flow at those intervals.
 We took two steps to ensure this did not compromise our results: First,
 we chose a relatively large spanwise domain (approximately 0.7 times the
 slat chord length) – significantly larger than the characteristic spanwise
 coherence lengths reported in prior studies – so that the most energetic
 flow structures including the spanwise cells in the cove had enough room
 to develop without being overly constrained.
 Second, we performed a comparison simulation with half the span length
 to see if the flow features or acoustics changed.
 The full-span and half-span cases showed that the primary two-dimensional
 flow features (e.g.
 time-averaged pressure distribution, overall lift and drag) remained similar,
 but the shorter span weakened the 3D cove cell structures in the latter
 part of the shear layer .
 This confirms that the spanwise instability was real and not a numerical
 artifact – it still started to form in the half-span domain – but also
 indicates that a too-small periodic span can suppress some of the 3D developmen
t – the cells were less pronounced and the spanwise velocity fluctuations
 reduced in the half-span case.
 In our main simulations with the larger span, the persistence of strong
 spanwise cells suggests that we captured the essential 3D physics; however,
 it is acknowledged that these periodic simulations cannot capture any non-perio
dic or finite-wing effects.
 In reality, a wing of finite span might allow coherent structures to drift
 or decay in the spanwise direction beyond what a strictly periodic domain
 permits.
 Thus, one should be cautious in interpreting absolute coherence lengths
 and tonal purity from a periodic simulation – those could be somewhat elevated
 compared to a real wing where end effects or spanwise variation exist.
 In summary, spanwise periodicity was a necessary modeling assumption for
 tractability, and we mitigated its drawbacks by using a sufficiently large
 domain and verifying insensitivity of results to further span increase.
 Future studies might explore alternative approaches such as using damping
 zones at spanwise ends to simulate an “effectively infinite” wing without
 exact repetition, but those come with their own complexities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the above considerations, the LBM approach has proven applicable and
 reliable for high-fidelity aeroacoustic simulation of slat noise.
 The method’s strengths (low dissipation, explicit transient solution, easy
 parallelization) enabled us to capture subtle unsteady flow phenomena and
 their acoustic consequence, which may have been more challenging for convention
al Navier–Stokes solvers without enormous effort in numerical tuning.
 The limitations encountered including grid resolution demands, dispersion,
 periodicity constraints are manageable with careful planning and computing
 power, as demonstrated.
 Therefore, LBM stands out as a capable tool for aeroacoustic research of
 complex configurations like high-lift devices, though users must remain
 vigilant about numerical effects and perform validations to ensure physical
 fidelity.
 This critical assessment of LBM in our work not only underpins the trustworthin
ess of the present results, but also provides guidance for others looking
 to apply LBM to similar aeroacoustic problems in the future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Future Perspectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From the conclusions of this thesis, several avenues are proposed for future
 work.
 These include immediate next steps that naturally extend the current study,
 as well as long-term research directions that apply emerging techniques
 to the problem of slat noise prediction and reduction.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Near-Term Research Directions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Expanded Parametric Studies: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A logical next step is to broaden the parameter space investigated for slat
 noise characteristics.
 In this thesis we varied the slat gap and overlap for a fixed airfoil geometry
 – the VALIANT 2-element configuration at a single angle of attack, Mach
 number, and Reynolds number.
 Future studies should consider a more comprehensive parametric sweep, including
 different slat deflection angles, gap sizes, profile shapes, and incoming
 velocity.
 For example, examining higher deployment angles or slightly reshaped slat
 cusp geometries could reveal how robust the identified noise mechanisms
 are under geometric changes.
 Likewise, varying the flow conditions – such as freestream velocity (Reynolds
 number) or angle of attack of the main wing – would provide insight into
 the scaling of the noise sources.
 Expanding the dataset in these ways would not only enhance the surrogate
 model (making it more general), but also test the limits of the current
 conclusions.
 For instance, it can answer questions like whether the bursting Strouhal
 number remain around 0.16 for other configurations, or does it shift with
 different flow parameters Answering such questions would help generalize
 the slat noise theory and potentially lead to low-order design tools.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Further Validation and Diagnostics: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although a validation was performed for the baseline case, it would strengthen
 the conclusions to seek additional experimental or high-fidelity data for
 comparison.
 Near-term efforts could involve collaborating with experimental researchers
 to obtain detailed measurements for a few key cases for instance, the loudest
 slat position identified by our surrogate model.
 Comparing measured and simulated far-field spectra, as well as any measured
 flow features, would provide a rigorous test of the new physical insights.
 This could include checking if the predicted burst frequency and spanwise
 mode pattern occur in reality.
 The recent experiments by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "KamliyaJawahar2021"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 on slat noise intermittency, for example, might be re-examined in light
 of our findings to probe whether their wall-pressure traces or acoustic
 spectra show signatures consistent with a recirculation bubble pulsation;
 or whether the characteristics vary along the spanwise directions.
 A targeted experimental campaign on a slat-only configuration could directly
 look for the spanwise cellular flows or the unsteady recirculation bubble
 hypothesized here.
 Validating these flow features is challenging, but indirect evidence could
 support our conclusions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Future work 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Machine Learning Surrogates with Enhanced Capability: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A major long-term goal is to leverage advanced machine learning (ML) techniques,
 particularly deep neural networks, to create surrogate models of slat noise
 that go beyond the limited-parameter Gaussian Process model developed here.
 Neural networks can approximate high-dimensional, nonlinear mappings and
 could thus handle a broader design space – for instance, simultaneously
 varying the slat geometry, wing geometry, and flow conditions – something
 infeasible to cover with a small set of simulations.
 In the future, one could imagine training a neural-network-based surrogate
 on a large database of aeroacoustic simulations (possibly including different
 airfoil profiles, various slat and flap configurations, etc.) so that it
 learns the complex relationship between design parameters and the resulting
 noise spectrum or sound levels.
 Such a model, once trained, would deliver near-instant predictions of slat
 noise, enabling real-time assessments in design processes or active control
 systems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Integration into Design and Noise Mitigation:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the long run, the insights and tools developed here can be directed towards
 practical noise reduction strategies for high-lift devices.
 One vision is to incorporate the surrogate model (enhanced by ML as discussed
 above) into a multi-objective optimization framework for aircraft design.
 For example, an optimizer could adjust the slat geometry or deployment
 angle to minimize noise, perhaps aiming to disrupt the coherence or reduce
 the strength of the cove instabilities, while still meeting lift and aerodynami
c requirements.
 The fast evaluation provided by a surrogate would make it feasible to explore
 a vast design space and identify novel configurations or add-on devices
 such as slat cove fillers or serrated slat cusps that achieve a better
 noise-performance trade-off.
 Any promising designs coming out of such computational optimization could
 then be validated by targeted high-fidelity simulations and experiments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Extending High-Fidelity Simulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As computing power continues to grow, it will become increasingly feasible
 to apply high-fidelity methods like LBM to more complex and realistic scenarios
, which is another long-term avenue.
 Future researchers could build on this work by simulating a full wing with
 both slat and flap in deployed position, or a complete aircraft landing
 configuration, capturing the interplay between multiple noise sources (slat,
 flap, landing gear, etc.).
 While today this would be enormously demanding, trends in GPU-based computing
 and algorithmic improvements (e.g.
 adaptive mesh refinement in LBM, better boundary conditions, coupling with
 Large-Eddy Simulation turbulence models for finer near-wall resolution)
 may bring such computations within reach.
 These simulations would validate whether the noise mechanisms identified
 in an isolated slat hold in the presence of other components and whether
 new noise source interactions emerge.
 They could also provide high-fidelity data to guide standards and regulations
 by virtually testing noise abatement scenarios (for instance, different
 approach configurations or modified flap schedules to reduce noise).
 In tandem, continuing to improve the numerical methods is crucial.
 Development of LBM variants with reduced dispersion error, or hybridizing
 LBM with finite-volume methods in certain regions, might allow accurate
 capture of a broader frequency range and finer flow details without overwhelmin
g resources.
 The spanwise periodicity issue could be tackled by simulating larger sectors
 of the wing or using novel boundary treatments as mentioned, so that eventually
 the simulations can directly handle finite-span effects and true random
 (non-periodic) behavior of turbulence and sound radiation.
 In summary, the long-term trajectory of this research field will likely
 see a convergence of data-driven models and brute-force simulations: the
 former (ML surrogates) will rapidly explore design changes and hypotheses,
 while the latter (next-generation high-fidelity simulations) will verify
 and deepen our understanding, each feeding into the other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In closing, the work accomplished in this thesis, in our expectations, has
 laid a groundwork in both methodology and physical insight for addressing
 slat noise.
 By amalgamating an advanced CFD approach (LBM) with modern surrogate modeling,
 we have shown a pathway to analyze, predict, and possibly mitigate the
 complex noise generated by high-lift devices.
 The method is also generalisable to other aeroacoustic cases where complex
 industrial geometries need to be studied parametrically but where each
 experimentation is computationally expensive.
 The findings we present not only solve pieces of the long-standing puzzle
 of slat noise dynamics, but also open the door to innovative research direction
s.
 Continued efforts along the lines described will bring us closer to the
 goals of deeper scientific understanding and practical noise reduction,
 contributing to the broader aim of more environmentally sustainable aviation.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
