#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /home/amurali/Desktop/DRARM_Thesis_2024/Thesis_draft/
\textclass report
\begin_preamble

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\setcounter{chapter}{0}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\master Thesis_Manuscript_ARM.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "beramono" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\float_placement th
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "PhD Thesis Draft"
\pdf_author "Ama Roy Murali"
\pdf_subject "Noise prediction for high lift devices"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 0
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style unsrtnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Acknowledgements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First and foremost, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to my thesis
 advisors, Prof.
 Marc C Jacob, Prof.
 Vincent Clair, and Prof.
 Michel Roger, for their unwavering support, insightful guidance, and invaluable
 feedback throughout this research journey.
 Their expertise, patience, and encouragement were instrumental in shaping
 this work and helping me navigate challenges along the way.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My heartfelt thanks go to my colleagues and peers at Ecole Centrale de Lyon,
 for their camaraderie, stimulating discussions, and technical assistance.
 The collaborative environment fostered by this group made the research
 process both productive and enjoyable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am eternally grateful to my family — my parents, and siblings — for their
 unconditional love, endless encouragement, and sacrifices that enabled
 me to pursue my academic goals.
 Their belief in me has been a constant source of motivation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To my friends, thank you for your moral support, laughter, and understanding
 during stressful moments.
 You reminded me to stay grounded and persevere even when the path seemed
 daunting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, I acknowledge the financial and institutional support provided
 by Airbus, and the early support from its engineers, namely, Dr.
 Florian Guiho, Dr.
 Maxime Itasse, and Dr.
 Nicolas Molin, which made this research possible.
 The resources, facilities, and opportunities offered were critical to the
 completion of this project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While this thesis represents my individual effort, it stands on the collective
 contributions of everyone mentioned above.
 Any errors or shortcomings remain my own.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
